hey it's Joel clucky from business
casual copywriting and you're watching a
hundred days of SEO what's happening
guys Brendan huffard here happy Labor
Day those he's celebrating at work
hanging out this awesome lake up here in
Michigan this is look how beautiful this
is
look at this Lake look how absolutely
stunning this is down here today I just
want to share with you an interview I
did with Joel clucky I'm so excited
about this interview joel is one of the
best conversion copywriters that I've
ever had to get Forks into good to know
he's something more about SEO by
teaching me about copywriting and I
never thought I could have learned I'm
so excited today we're gonna talk about
a bunch of things but most importantly
is what does SEO copywriting mean and
where is the intersection between SEO
copywriting enjoy Joel thanks for
joining us for a hundred days of SEO
yeah I want to jump right into it so
I've obviously followed your work for a
little bit and especially in traffic
think-tank and on Twitter and stuff and
weren't a couple of the same like
Facebook groups I think and one of the
first things I saw that had you in it
that I thought was really interesting
was the interview you did with Ross from
siege media and I shared that with
everybody I still continue to share
parts of that I ripped part of the video
and uploaded it to my own Twitter so I
could just retweet myself good so I love
it I see this a lot in Facebook groups
and especially in the copywriting groups
that you and I are both in especially
one of them
this phrase SEO copywriting comes up
again again like what what does that
mean like what does that mean to you
yeah and it's a good question because
what it means really depends on who you
ask right there's people who like live
and die by it they swear it's like it's
on full-blown thing and I mean don't get
me wrong I have respect for fork
operators who also know SEO and who
dabble in SEO and understand the impact
of rankings and title tags and all of
that but for me I hate I hate the phrase
SEO copywriting it's usually for me
associated with all that I hate about
copywriting because typically
not the people who you know like if we
ever like a late sake 18k tune does
everything right when it comes to
combining the worlds of SEO and cover
and putting them together but for me
it's a really meaningless phrase because
when you're writing copy for the web
you're writing to intent you're writing
thematically you're writing with the
intent of engaging a human being
whereas SEO copying test get thrown up
by companies who want like spammy
articles and certain keyword densities
and all this really old-school not so
awesome kind of really skewed way of
looking at the world of copywriting it
whenever you're putting SEO ahead of the
copy itself I think something's probably
gone gone amiss yeah kind of shows too
that you don't know what SEO is if you
think that I mean granted here's the
thing like if if you're doing
copywriting and it's hurting your SEO
you prize it is it fair to say you don't
know how to do copywriting is that - and
I mean to insult anybody know I think
but I think that's kind of that's it
right you know when we think of SEO
covering like what people often think is
like okay I've got you know a hundred
different location location pages I need
someone to write a hundred unique you
know ways of saying restaurant in
Tallahassee and that kind of thing like
we reached a point I think where the
algorithm
you know Google's not perfect very very
far from it I know from my days working
in SEO it was broken back then there's
still parts of you that are massively
broken today but I feel like we've
reached a point where Google does a good
job of understanding what a page is
about what themes are linked where if
they are considering you know things
like engagement then they're looking at
time on site and where people navigate
and how they do that type of thing and
that that can all be determined but if
you're writing in a way that's actively
hurting you you just don't understand
copywriting in and of itself and if
you're writing great compelling copy
then odds are good you're gonna take a
whole lot of the boxes for SEO anyhow so
while there are elements you know to me
SEO is a consideration it's not the end
goal and I think that's the thing that
bothers me most is that SEO is something
you bake into the copy it's something
you consider when you write but it
shouldn't be the ultimate end goal the
end goal is not to show up the end goal
is not to
for a thing it's to deliver a message
and to communicate some sort of value
and so that's I think that's where the
thorn in my side comes from from SEO the
words SEO copywriting or the field of
SEO copywriting is if showing up is the
end goal if SEO is the end goal I feel
like your priorities have gotten really
skewed somewhere along the way yeah and
if you thought and you think that
putting a phrase in your h1 tag it's
gonna be the thing that really does it
for you right you've also got some
misaligned goals too
tell me a little bit about how you think
you know you're one of the few
copywriters that I know that I really
trust when it comes to and I don't mean
again to be insulting to copywriters but
typically when you focus on copy you
don't get a really good education in SEO
even though and we're kind of talking
about this too like there's a lot more
overlap coming between the two what are
some like beginner SEO mistakes that you
see people making whether it just be
copy or just on their websites in
general yeah I mean there's all the old
classics where like I think one of the
biggest things that that drives me nuts
is the mistaken belief that a page has
to be a certain length and I'm all for
looking at the data and analyzing saying
okay page that are 3,000 words tend to
outrank pages that are 200 the problem
is when that's the focus for your SEO
you're completely ignoring like are
those 3,000 words
valuable and when you're putting a word
count ahead of again the experience of
the copy the message of the copy the the
conversion elements of the copy then
your priorities are out of whack so I
think that's a huge one is companies are
like no the home page must be this many
words and we need to have this certain
keyword density so I think that's a big
mistake
I think another huge mistake is kind of
you just alluded to it right copy has a
place a massive place in SEO but a
mistaken belief that there are things
that absolutely must be there like you
must have your keyword in the h1 it's
got to be there or you know you must
have like a very formulaic title tag I
think a lot of beginner se O's forget
that SEO is like a multiple factor you
know practice there's lots of different
things happening in conjunction so you
have
to know how to bend the rules and places
and if you've got a really strong
backlink profile then you've got some
leeway to be a little bit more playful
in your copy and if you're doing things
right with your copy and sucking people
in you know you could rank third on the
page but if your title tag is way more
compelling way more interesting we clear
than the two people above you then
there's another way for you to compete
so I think looking at SEO is a very like
black and white practice is another
mistake that I see a lot of beginners
and even to be honest a lot of advanced
people making we like to box ourselves
in with rules and rules are meant to be
things that guide us but they're not
meant to be like absolutes and like if
you don't have this one thing you're
doing everything wrong it's it's not a
zero-sum game there's there's more to it
than that
yeah I think there's reminds me of a
couple things eight refs put out a
really cool thing about like ranking
factors and they showed throughout all
like a bunch of data sets it's far from
scientific research but it's better than
nothing that the thing that really moves
the needle for rankings is links far
more than is your keyword in your h1 tag
or whatever and the other thing too is
I've seen time and time again all these
interesting case studies of people who
get to the first page and then find ways
to influence click data whether that be
BOTS or you have a viral YouTube video
that says hey go Google this or P you're
talking about something and then people
go and google it and then they click you
and you might be ranking fifth and all
of a sudden you're first and you never
leave the first position because you're
just getting more clicks like once
you're on the first page like the
click-through rate I think is becoming I
mean not that links don't matter and
things like that but the click-through
rate matters quite a bit once you're on
the first page for something especially
in something super competitive like
Chicago Web Design which is an arena
that I play in or you know managed
WordPress hosting or something like that
right yeah and I mean you know I've been
out of the SEO game for some time now I
certainly keep my finger on the pulse of
it and things are changing and they're
always testing and trying new things
that much I know but I think for me what
it really boils down to is it doesn't
matter if you show up if showing up once
people click through that experience is
terrible or the copy doesn't sell them
or you're making the wrong clay
and that's why I think yes you know it's
it's smart for copywriters to have some
basic fundamentals of SEO does that make
you a quote-unquote SEO copywriter do I
think SEO should ever be like the top
priority like the winner in a debate
between conversions and SEO I mean my
where my bias on my sleeve I feel like
conversions should win that battle each
and every time like I'd rather rank
worse and sell more than rank better and
sell less it doesn't it doesn't make a
whole lot of sense for me to reverse the
two so I think at the end of the day
what it boils down to for me is like yes
get informed on SEO and learn you know
the factors and understand but realize
that those are just one more tool in
your tool kit they're not the be-all
end-all and at the end of the day what
we're doing with words is having
conversations sending messages and you
know hopefully communicating something
of value and on the web like your
message is who you are what you say on
your website is how you'll be perceived
and how people you know learn from you
and buy from you and I'm taking your
information so I think that's way too
important a thing to really just hand
over to the SEO department go here you
guys with this yeah absolutely I was
just reading a tweet or tweeting back
and forth to the guy with John Henry
shirk who's a guy follow quite a bit on
Twitter I've had him on 100 days of SEO
as well and really just thinking more
about what we do in SEO is demand
generation or lead generation and seeing
all of it more holistically and seeing
how we can help a company more than just
traffic and seeing he said he had a case
where he was trying to beat out the
content team and it was you know he had
to tell his boss hey we kind of need
them like we can't be in a race against
them to outperform them like we this you
know this works together right so I want
to take a step back and just really just
if we could put it in like a snapshot or
even like that 10,000 foot view of like
I think there's a huge overlap between
SEO research if we're really looking at
the future of SEO which is very much
intent-based and things like that
SEO research very much mirrors
copywriting research so when you're
starting to do research on either a new
project or even an existing one where do
you start and like what
in sets can you give somebody who's
maybe doing SEO research to try to like
match search intent a little bit better
and deliver I guess that better
experience once somebody gets on the
site yeah and I mean the research
process is something that is long and
nuanced and like probably 90% of what I
do and what I get paid to do is that
research side of things and so for me it
all starts with conversations having
structured conversations with actual
customers actual leads so we'll run
surveys and we'll look at their
experience of buying what was the pain
that they were feeling that sent them
looking so we're looking for those
purchased triggers and the overlap for
SEO is the way that they talk about that
pain and the way that they describe
those triggers that's gonna open up a
whole new world of things not only to
consider ranking for but ways to talk
about it on the page avenues to go down
places to show up we find out not only
you know what that pain was but how they
tried to solve it in the past so what
are they coming off of what information
sources did they turn to because for me
I want to understand the context that
surrounds that decision-making and for
an SEO that's valuable because you know
for example let's say you're working for
a software company and if 99% of people
go to review sites or go to something
like a g2 or a kaptara or whatever if
they go there first then the people that
you're competing against might not even
be the other people who show up you know
above you for a certain set of keywords
it might be whoever ranks best on one of
those secondary platforms like your
whole strategy might shift so we look at
surveys we look at interviews we look at
the qualitative side to really
understand someone's journey what was
their pain what outcome did they want
where did they go to for information we
find these conversations on places like
Reddit and Cora and we look at just the
language people use to talk about the
outcomes they want the pains that they
have in those types of things and that's
how you know we steal those we bring
those into the copy and that's how we
make the messaging compelling and
relatable and so for SEO doing the same
thing that's how you can drive not only
interest and awareness but finding
opportunities for ranking find out you
know like which keywords might be most
significant of significant to a
particular type of intent and then you
can craft the content around that so for
example for SEO as well like for queries
that are based on like an X versus Y as
a
copier I know that that person is in the
product aware stage right they know they
understand their pain already they
understand how the solutions work they
understand that there are multiple
solutions but they're actively
establishing preferences as to which one
is right for them so if we start off
that page with a paragraph about you
know what link-building is like if
somebody was searching for X link
building better versus Y link building
bender and your page that you ranked for
on that phrase started with a what is
link building snippet you lose because a
person already knows that you're giving
them shin fo information they already
have it's not helpful to them so when we
understand the intent then we can craft
the experience then we can drive the
sale when you're doing all of that when
you're the most relevant useful piece of
content that's ranking for that then you
deserve to be there and that's what
Google wants to see and that's hopefully
what gets passed around and shared
naturally by humans too because it's
actually legitimately valuable so it
stops being a game of like do we have
the h1 in the headline and more a game
of like do we answer this question the
best and I know that there are those
like links still matter there's still
black holes and black hat and all these
different things that you could do to to
cheat the system but at the end of the
day we have more aligned and the more in
common than we do disparate it's not
copied versus SEO we are pulling in the
same direction so there's the whole cult
ape side and then the quantitative side
which I think will also both look at
things like recorded sessions what
sections do they look at what sections
do they ignore looking at analytics like
where they land on this page where do
they go next to understand for me what
gaps are in information and for an SEO
you know like where do we need to
interlink or or where do we need to make
this clear and that sort of thing so
there's a lot of overlap between the two
and a lot of different benefits that
come out of doing that type of research
on both fronts yeah I just saw thing
from my buddy Matt G of an EC was like
he was linking he's trying to get people
to sign up for his email list from his
blog posts and he was like so he built
out this great autoresponder to push for
the sale and he was like didn't help
anything he goes and then I just started
putting the products on the page and all
of a sudden sales went up and he was I
was like well cuz you I mean well not I
didn't he's not dumb but it's like well
people are further down the funnel than
you thought they were that you thought
they needed to be nurtured and you
didn't realize
like the buyer intent at this point on
this article was real high awesome Joel
I really appreciate your thoughts thanks
for coming on 100 days of SEO yeah
thanks for having me I think it's a
great project I'm excited to see who
else you'll feature you've had some
smart folks like John Henry on and I
think it's a cool initiative so thanks
for having me on all right so we are
recording I look like a maniac today